# Implementing a Strong Code-Review Culture

## Abstract

Code reviews are not about catching bugs. Modern code reviews are about
socialization, learning, and teaching.

How can you get the most out of a peer's code review and how can you review code
without being seen as overly critical? Reviewing code and writing
easily-reviewed features are skills that will make you a better developer and a
better teammate.

You will leave this talk with the tools to implement a successful code-review
culture. You'll learn how to get more from the reviews you're already getting
and how to have more impact with the reviews you leave.

## Details

Many view code reviews as a way to catch bugs before they go to production or
even as a necessary evil foisted upon them by compliance officers. Studies show
that developers list finding defects as an overwhelming motivator for code
reviews. Those same studies find that the real benefits from code reviews are
code improvements, understanding, and social communication. We'll look at ways
to tailor the code review process towards these benefits.

We'll discuss code review best practices and anti-patterns, from social aspects
to technical process. You'll learn how to get the most from a peer's review and
how to have the most impact with the reviews you leave. We'll talk about dealing
with difficult teammates, leveling up junior developers, and how to be fearless
in leaving feedback for more senior developers. We'll do this all with data,
anecdotes, and scenes from actual, real-life code reviews.

This talk is aimed at anyone who is doing or is curious about code reviews.
Beginners and senior developers alike will take actionable information away that
will make them better developers.

## Pitch

Code reviews are the primary way for developers to share technical and domain
knowledge amongst the team. I've been doing professional web development for
over 15 years and code reviews for the last 10. I've seen them work poorly and
I've seen them work astoundingly well. I consider a strong code-review culture
to be a professional perk and routinely learn something new from reviewing code
and having my code reviewed.
